To whom do we belong?
When was the last time you said to yourself,
I belong to Jehovah.
Maybe it was during the singing of song number 40
that we just concluded.
It's important for all of us really
to think about our dedication vow.
Why?
Because it helps us to focus on what's really important,
our relationship with Jehovah.
During this talk, we're going to discuss why
belonging to Jehovah is the most secure place to be.
But we want to start off by discussing
how we also belong to the Christian congregation.
And really, in what sense is that the case?
Well, I invite you to open to 1 Corinthians chapter three.
And first, a little bit of context.
Beginning in chapter one, the Apostle Paul reveals
that the congregation in Corinth was divided.
There were divisions in the congregation.
Some Christians were expressing favoritism.
Some said, I belong to Paul.
Others, I belong to Apollo.
Others, I belong to Cephas or Peter.
Why?
Well, those men had remarkable qualities and abilities.
But should they have focused on them so much?
They had remarkable abilities in teaching or in shepherding.
Maybe the brothers in Corinth were heard saying,
Apollo, this is my favorite speaker.
Or Paul is my favorite missionary.
Or Peter is my favorite shepherd.
He's so down to earth.
What was Paul's inspired council?
We find it in verses 21 through 23.
1 Corinthians chapter three, verses 21 through 23.
He says, so that no one boasts in men
for all things belong to you.
Whether Paul or Apollo's or Cephas or the world or life
or death or things now here or things to come,
all things belong to you.
In turn, you belong to Christ.
Christ in turn belongs to God.
Let no one boasts in men.
What's the point?
The Christians in Corinth really had no basis
to say that they belong to Paul or Apollo's or to Peter.
Instead, it was the other way around.
That was the reality.
All things belong to you.
All things belong to the congregation.
The Christian congregation.
That is, all things God has made or arranged
are at the disposal of Christians for their benefit.
Paul, Apollo's and Cephas, we're all working
unitedly to build up the Christian congregation.
They all belong to the congregation
as a gift from God to help the congregation
for the congregation's well-being.
Well, where do we fit in these verses?
Where do you fit as Gilead soon to be graduates?
How will that help you in your new assignments?
Well, we too are part of the collective Christian congregation
to which all things belong.
And that's a comforting thought.
What does that mean?
Well, circuit overseers, field missionaries,
congregation elders, Bethelites are a gift from Jehovah
for our encouragement for the benefit of the congregation.
But we can turn that around as well.
The opposite is true.
Just like Paul, Apollo's and Cephas,
we too as our individuals belonging to the congregation,
we are gifts from God for their well-being.
What does that mean?
Well, simply put, at times we receive encouragement,
at times we give encouragement to others in the congregation.
The Apostle Peter later wrote in 1 Peter 4 verse 10
to the extent that each one has received a gift,
use it in ministering.
Now, the Greek word rendered ministering literally means serving.
So ministering to one another, serving one another
as fine stewards of God's undeserved kindness,
that is expressed in various ways.
So each of you has a gift.
Each of you is a gift to the congregation.
So continue to let Jehovah use you to help others.
We can be expressions of Jehovah's loving kindness,
undeserved kindness to fellow believers,
but only if we act in their behalf.
Now, there's something else that Paul mentioned in this verse.
He said, in turn, you belong to Christ.
Christ is head of the Christian congregation.
So the congregation is like a body,
and the head controls the movement of the body.
The head directs all the parts of the body,
how to move, how to perform work.
So do we personally choose our assignments,
where we serve?
Granted, we might pursue particular goals
or avenues of service, but do we
choose our assignment and Bethel service?
When I first came to Bethel, I had the idea
that I wanted to work in construction or in the art department.
I was assigned to the binary.
If we view each assignment as coming from Jehovah
from Jesus Christ as the head,
it will help us to be content and happy.
What about a new circuit over here?
Does he get to choose where he wants to serve?
What about a newly appointed field missionary?
Does he select the country or the city where he will serve?
You know the answer to that.
We might compare to air traffic control
at a major airport.
Jesus directs us through the organization
to when to take off and where and when to land.
Jesus might also tell us you're grounded.
Maybe we're not ready for flight.
Maybe we need to refuel.
Maybe it's time to retire the plane.
But Jesus is in control.
In New York, New Jersey, nearly 1,200 flights
passed through the airport every day.
Total of 36,387 in August 2023.
That requires tremendous organization and coordination.
They have to work around rainstorms, snowstorms,
windstorms, not just at the local airport,
but in other places throughout the country, too.
Well, what would happen if there was no air traffic control?
Collisions damaged to aircraft life might be lost?
Complete chaos.
There certainly would be problems.
What about the Christian congregation?
Well, Jesus is the perfect leader and commander.
And we do our best to follow his direction.
Think about the tremendous amount of work
and organization involved in training
and appointing branch committee members.
Circuit overseers, congregation elders, ministerial servants,
regular pioneers, not to mention the organization
of theocratic schools as well.
Gilead, the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
School for Congregation Elders, Pioneer Service Schools,
many others that requires organization and coordination.
What we might call a tremendous air traffic control.
Aren't we glad that we belong to an organization with Christ
as the head?
But at times it calls for personal sacrifices.
The pilot can't tell air traffic control
when and where he wants to land.
It requires personal sacrifices on his part.
The August 1st, 1998 watchtower contained
this life story of brother George Couch, a name familiar to us.
While serving in the circuit work in 1957,
brother Couch and his wife were invited
to serve at Bethel instead.
And brother Couch received some very pointed counsel
from brother Nore, his first day at Bethel.
What did brother Nore tell him?
He said, you're not a circuit servant anymore.
You were here to work at Bethel.
This is the most important work that you have to do
and we want you to put your time and energy
into applying the training you receive here at Bethel.
Brother Couch related the first assignment
I had was in the magazine and mailing departments.
Later, after about three years, brother Nore
informed me that the real reason I was brought to Bethel
was to work in the home.
You are here to run the Bethel home, he said.
While during those first three years,
brother Couch must have wondered why in the world
he was taken out of the circuit work
to work in the magazine and mailing department.
But Jesus knew why, brother Nore knew why,
and looking back on that, we know why too.
Brother Couch was dearly loved as the Bethel home
overseer for many decades.
Incidentally, the title he chose for his life story
is we have done what we ought to have done,
a sterling example for all of us.
So what have we learned to this point?
All things belong to you, all things belong to the congregation.
We are servants to our brothers and sisters.
We care for one another as belonging to the same body.
The Apostle Paul expressed that well at Romans 12 verse 5.
We are members belonging to one another.
And you as a Gilead class have already demonstrated that.
You've rallied around one another.
You've rallied around Bethelites
who have gone through difficult trials in their life.
And we also learned that you belong to Christ,
the head of the Christian congregation,
Christ Jesus determines how, when and where we might serve best.
So yes, we belong to the congregation.
And we can be confident that in any future assignments
that we receive, there will be brothers and sisters there
that we can share, that with, we can encourage, we can strengthen.
We will find joy in ministering to others
just as Paul, Apollo's, and Peter found joy
in serving their Christian brothers as well.
Let's consider our second point now, though.
We belong to Jehovah.
Do you remember the day of your baptism?
Do you remember the smell of the water?
If it was in an assembly hall, maybe chlorine.
If you were baptized in the sea, maybe there was a salt smell.
Maybe the temperature of the water was what struck you the most.
What about the baptism talk?
Or the baptism questions?
Well, every year we're reminded of the questions three times, right?
Two assemblies and one convention.
Have you repented of your sins?
Dedicated yourself to Jehovah
and accepted his way of salvation through Jesus Christ?
And second, do you understand that your baptism identifies you
as one of Jehovah's witnesses in association with his organization?
Well, before hundreds, perhaps thousands of people,
of course, the most important witnesses being in the heavens,
we answered yes to those questions.
And then we were baptized.
And how we made Jehovah's heart rejoice on that day.
But dedication is a personal choice.
Our parents can't make that decision for us.
Our Bible teacher can't make that decision for us.
Dedication to Jehovah is personal.
And why do we dedicate our life to Jehovah?
Because we love him.
We love his organization.
Because we learned about his beautiful personality.
And during Gilead, you've learned many more reasons to love Jehovah
and his organization.
So how do we now feel about our God?
Perhaps as described in Isaiah chapter 44,
Isaiah 44, notice with me verse five,
and see if this reflects your feelings towards Jehovah.
Isaiah 44, five, one will say,
I belong to Jehovah.
Another will call himself by the name of Jacob.
And yet another will write on his hand,
belonging to Jehovah.
And he will adopt the name of Israel.
Belonging to Jehovah.
Written in permanent ink, we can't tell Jehovah
that our dedication was a mistake, no.
We've attached ourselves to the Almighty God.
What a privilege that is to belong to the only true God.
We're proud to bear his name, Jehovah.
And at times like this, we might echo the words of Joshua.
As for me and my household, we will serve Jehovah.
Well, the question is, how does that make Jehovah feel
about you, that determination to continue serving him?
If you're still there in Isaiah, notice chapter 43, verse one.
Now, this is what Jehovah says, your creator, O Jacob,
the one who formed you, O Israel, do not be afraid
for I have repurchased you.
I have called you by your name.
You belong to me.
Of course, Jehovah here is speaking about his people
as a whole, but he knows us individually.
Second Timothy 2, verse 19, tells us directly,
Jehovah knows those who belong to him.
He has a personal attachment to each of us.
That's how Jehovah feels about all
of his precious servants.
That's how Jehovah feels about you.
Well, does dedication to Jehovah mean
that life is without trials?
What do you think?
No?
We've all experienced trials,
but what assurance can we have during those trials?
Right there in Isaiah chapter 43, notice verse two,
Jehovah's personal assurance.
It says, when you pass through the waters,
I will be with you, and through the rivers,
they will not flood over you.
When you walk through the fire, you will not be scorched,
nor will the flame cinch you.
I wonder if Han and I, Michelle and Aziraya
had those words in mind as the King Nebuchadnezzar
condemned them to the fiery furnace.
But what's the point?
Jehovah doesn't promise to remove trials,
but he says, I will be with you in the flood, in the fire.
Jehovah can quiet our fears so that we can endure them,
so that we can maintain our integrity to him,
even in the face of death.
Well, how does that play out in real life?
Let's consider one of Jehovah's precious servants
in our modern day history.
Sister Valentina Garnofskaia.
Now, she was one of many witnesses in Russia
who kept her integrity despite severe trials.
In 1945, when she was about 20 years old,
her brother witnessed to her,
and he made two return visits, but then she never saw him again.
Well, what did she do with her limited knowledge of the truth?
She started preaching.
She began to preach to her neighbors,
and as a result, she was arrested and sentenced
to eight years in the labor camp.
In 1953, she was released and right away
resumed her preaching work.
Again, she was arrested and imprisoned this time for 10 years.
Now, the picture shows Valentina with a group of sisters
in a labor camp during her second imprisonment around 1959.
Well, what happened next?
1967, Valentina was again set free,
and she was finally able to symbolize her dedication
to Jehovah by water baptism.
Incredible.
All of that, preaching, being imprisoned,
despite actually having been baptized.
But that's not the end of the story.
In 1969, she was again arrested.
This time, she was sentenced to three years in prison.
Still, she kept on preaching.
Before she died in 2001,
she helped 44 people to learn the truth.
She had spent 21 years in prisons and camps.
And at the end of her life, Valentina said,
I never had my own place to live.
All my possessions were in a single suitcase,
but I was happy and content in serving Jehovah.
What's the lesson?
Jehovah knows those who belong to him,
and he cares for them, even in the flood or in the fire.
In recent years, the fire of persecution
has started to grow again in Russia.
Here's a collage of nearly 700 of our brothers
and sisters in Russia who've been persecuted
for belonging to Jehovah.
One of the sisters in the collage named Ludmila
is currently in prison, and what was her so-called crime?
According to the court document,
describing the attractiveness of serving Jehovah.
Shame on the authorities for persecuting our dear sister.
These dear ones are precious to Jehovah.
He is watching over them, even if they're currently in prison.
Through his word, Jehovah says that in them personally,
you belong to me, I will be with you.
For these dear ones and all of us who belong to Jehovah,
we find a very interesting verse later in Isaiah chapter 43,
verse 13.
It says, also, I am always the same one.
And no one can snatch anything out of my hand
when I act who can prevent it.
So when I act who can prevent it, Jehovah says,
no one can snatch anything out of my hand.
Now, previously the New World translation said here,
there was no one affecting deliverance out of my hand.
In other words, when Jehovah acts against his enemies,
as he did against ancient Babylon as we know it in verse 14,
no one can turn back his hand.
But the current rendering, no one can snatch anything out
of my hand made me think of Jesus' words in John chapter 10.
John 10 verse 29, Jesus said, no one can snatch them
or Jesus precious sheep out of the hand of the Father.
That's a secure place to be in Jehovah's hand.
How might we illustrate this?
Well, let's use an example from Jehovah's creative works,
a grizzly bear, a mother grizzly bear.
She's super protective of her cubs.
Will she care for them?
Or I'll just try to get between her and her cubs
and you'll find out real fast.
One reference says, mother bears are affectionate,
protective, devoted, strict, sensitive,
and attentive with their young.
Bears can be empathetic, fearful, joyful, playful,
social, and altruistic.
Well, what about Jehovah?
If a mother bear is protective and devoted,
how much more so is Jehovah interested in each one of you,
each one of all of us, our brothers and sisters
in Russia included.
If we live or if we die, we belong to Jehovah.
That's a secure place to be.
Never would we want to do anything
to hurt our loving Father and take ourselves out
of Jehovah's hand.
Rather, may we continue to live up to our dedication to him.
So what have we considered?
To whom do we belong?
We belong to the Christian congregation,
a beautiful international brotherhood of fathers,
mothers and sons, mothers, sisters, daughters,
brothers as well, all belonging to one another.
We belong to Christ, the head of the Christian congregation
who provides direction in our service to Jehovah.
Tells us when to take off where to land.
We belong to Jehovah, our God,
the benevolent Father of a loving universal family.
So may we always treasure our precious place
among Jehovah's people.
And as you go to your assignments,
please be assured of our continued love and support.